whoa we've got a beautiful female and
she's so healthy the lab team get to
work beginning with the adult male 110
on the pulse and they take blood samples
and medical checks that will give Eric a
health record for the troop a little
tartar on his teeth but moderate to
moderate wear eyes and nose are clear
this is to me the most remarkable they
can really just grab on the trees so
easily with these if I could have one
thing that the Shafak has it it would be
a big toe like this I think humans have
devolved to a little bit they have this
over us we'd have to redesign shoes but
it would be worth it he's going through
the woods he's having a dream catching
those trees and bouncing some people say
that only humans are ticklish the final
task is to fit a radio collar so the
mail can be tracked anywhere in the
forest there are moments when when one
can help feel like a 19th century
Victorian hunter shooting animals out of
trees but then when it's all over you
realize that it's for the good of the
species this individual is contributing
so much he's maybe the 20th silkie that
has ever been captured and only the
fourth or fifth to ever wear a radio
collar this is the only silky sifaka
group that will know well living in a
disturbed forest and we need to know
what their strategy so they're on the
edge of extinction so we need to act
fast and and we're doing that the male
is placed back in his pillowcase to
recover
and hung on the edge of the camp in the
shade for peace and quiet then they turn
their attention to the female and this a
wonderful revelation yeah go babe she's
pregnant oh my goodness I'm optimistic
that the baby will have a much greater
chance of survival now that our team is
here
you know infant mortality so high but as
we start to watch them every day
this symptoms gonna make it fantastic
pre dad she looks beautiful
break out the cigars yeah that's good
that's populations growing
after a couple of hours all the troop
has been checked and it's time for their
release
so please my friend same top but it's my
plasma I ready to jump
Oh oops
oh wow so be careful nappy be careful
[Music]
Eric now knows the troop is one male and
three females with the birth expected
this year to take their number to 5
we've already had a lot of success here
in the past few days and our presence
here will lead to the permanent safety
of this group we will become the
guardians of this forest
you